https://developercommunity.visualstudio.com/t/net-5-winforms-designer-load-error-does-not-load-p/1384393
.NET 5 Winforms Designer load error does not load properly after build (requires VS restart)

The attached solution contains a single .NET 5 project with a class ‘AbstractBaseControl’ which is an abstract class with an abstract method that derives from UserControl. ‘InheritedControl’ derives from ‘AbstractBaseControl’, is not abstract, and therefore implements the abstract method. This, as-is, makes ‘InheritedControl’ fail to open in the designer. Employing the standard ‘tricks’ used in VS2017 under .NET Framework Projects, like using the ‘TypeDescriptionProvider’ attribute on ‘AbstractBaseControl’ to inform the designer of a non-abstract type, should enable the designer to load ‘InheritedControl’ properly. But this only seemed to work ‘sometimes’. After some trial and error in my own projects, I found reproducible steps to get the designer ‘stuck’ in a bad state that cannot be recovered from outside of restarting Visual Studio. Here I will highlight those steps and how it behaves differently between TargetFramework of ‘net48’ as well.

If the project targets only ‘net5.0-windows’, and the project is opened clean (no bin/obj folders), and after the solution is fully loaded, opening InheritedControl.cs results in a designer load failure with the message ‘The designer could not be shown for this file because none of the classes within it can be designed. The designer inspected the following classes in the file: The designer could not be shown for this file because none of the classes within it can be designed. The designer inspected the following classes in the file: \r\n InheritedControl — The base class ‘FormDesignerAbstractBase.AbstractBaseControl’ could not be loaded. Ensure the assembly has been referenced and that all projects have been built.’ If we close this, build the project, and try to reopen the project in the designer, it continues to fail to load after rebuilds, multiple open/close of designer, etc. If Visual Studio is restarted, the ‘InheritedControl’ will now open. This is the bug.
If you repeat the test from #1 with one change - start with Visual Studio closed, delete the bin/obj folders, and change the TargetFramework in the project to ‘net48’. Follow the above steps, but note that when you try to reopen the designer after the build, it will successfully open. This behavior is in-line with Visual Studio 2017 v15.9.34, and is the behavior I’d expect.
Unrelated to this issue, is that when targeting ‘net5.0-windows’, the View menu ‘Tab Order’ is greyed out. When targeting ‘net48’, this option becomes available. I am not sure if this is being tracked under ‘https://developercommunity.visualstudio.com/t/Tab-Order-not-working/1063906’ or if this is a different issue. Please advise if I should open a separate issue for this bug.

Experienced and reproducible in the same way in VS 2019 16.9.2 and 16.10.0 Preview 1.0
